Alright! In this video, I want to
correct a mistake I made in some of my
commit messages. You can see up here,
I've got the commits I made to the
Spring Pet Clinic project and what
happened was that I've been pretty good
about including the issue number. In
these, you can see most of these end with
a hashtag and the issue number. Like I
said, I'm trying to follow good practice
of having issues to commit against something
that you'd do it in the workplace
typically. Especially in a larger shop,
you're always going to be coding
against a ticket. Here, I missed a couple
of ticket numbers. We can see here
on implementing a Map for Map
implementation for the visit service and
updated profiles for the JPA service, I
forgot to include the issue note number
in each of those commit messages. Now the
good news is you can go back and edit
those. It's a little bit tricky. I'm going to
show you how to do it in this video. It
doesn't always go as smooth that I've only done
a handful of times to be honest. It's one
of those things that you know is there
but you don't actually have to do it
that often. So, hopefully things go smooth
but I'm going to go through this and show
you how to do that. It does get a little
confusing. If you google changing a
commit message in Git, you can find this
page here, you can see help GitHub
articles changing a commit message, right
here in the URL up top. If you want find
this page, it comes right up with Google.
Couple of different scenarios that they're
looking at here. One is rewriting the
most recent commit message, which isn't
going to work for me because we can see
that I've already committed and pushed
up to GitHub a couple times. So we're
going to need to go in and do something a
little more complicated and it's
actually kind of a nice feature of Git.
We're going to come down here. See
this amending older or multiple commit
messages. It's this section right
here, mending the message of older or
multiple commit messages, this is
exactly what we want to do and we are
going to use the git rebase command. A
- i is interactive, so we're going to do
an interactive rebase. We're going to
say head. Head meaning the most recent
commit and then the tilde,
the little squiggly line and n is the number
of commits that we want to go back. Now,
let's take a look at this. I've got four
commits here. I'm going to refresh just to
make sure. I make sure that we're on the
latest and greatest, so yes, that is
accurate. So you can see here, I've had
a little break of 17 days since I've
worked on this so I'm now coming back to
it.
I want to get this guy here. I'm just
scrolling down, so you can see I've
actually been pretty good and I'm just
looking at the bottom commit messages.
We don't have to go that far back. I just
missed these two here. So that's a total
of four that we need to go in. Again, what
we're going to do is get rebase - i head.
In this case, I'm going to tilde four. So
I'm going to jump over here and we can see
here that I am in in the pet clinic
directory. One thing we want to do is
get git status. We can't have
anything that's not in flight. Here,
we got a couple untracked files so some
I should add to the get ignore so this
is not coming up. I'll do that in a
upcoming video. But here, let me clear
this.
Remember that command is git rebase - i.
- i for interactive. I'm going to say
head tilde. I'm going to say 4,
and now, we get this image up. What we
have is a list of commits, so
these are the commit IDs. So see this
pick? Let's see. I'm just going to use the
last three, 358. If I come back over here,
you can see that this should correspond
to this guy here, so that's 358, where we
got the a1b and then we can see there
a1b, so that's these messages that we
want to take up.
So the 358 one, that is the implemented
map implementation for visit service. So
I'm going to come over here. Create visit
map service, so that is number 46. You can
see there that's the issue that we want.
We want to do that. So I come over here and I
am going to edit this. I'm using VI.
VI is a little tricky.
I'm going to change
this to reword.
So I get my cursor out there.
I'm changing that to reword, so this is
358. Reword that for the visit service.
And then the next one is the aac one, so
let's come over here, look at that. That's
this guy here, the update profiles for
JPA service and that's this update
profiles for Spring Data JPA Services. So
that's number 48. So I want to come in to
this guy.
Again, that's reword and you can see
here we have the different commands for
the different messages, so I'm going to
reword that as well. I'm not going to
go into these other commands at this
time. So I'm going to do an escape : wq for
write and quit, so I'm going to write
that file and we can see that it comes
up to allow me to edit this commit
message. So implement map impl for
visit service. If I come back over
here, that is this guy number 46.
So I'm going to come over here into
the line. If I do A and VI, I can say that
number 46,
so that amends that. Now, if I come in
and do a write quit,
now, I get the next one and that closes
number 47. I don't need to change him.
I only did that one.
I think I grabbed a wrong guy, so I made
a mistake there. But the next step that I
need to do is that we're going to redo this
and get that other one as I need to do
a git push force, so...
like so.
You can see that is going there and
changing that. What's going to happen
is, this should change the commit
IDs.
You can see that this has been updated so we now
have that 46. I made a mistake and
grabbed. I think I added the wrong
commit message on that so I need to do
e309. So we're going to repeat
this exercise but just for the last two.
Let me clear this.
git rebase - i head tilde 2 and let's see
here.
I'm going to do this e309. Just
a double check, so we can see e309. I'm
just looking at the last four characters.
We get to have hashes like this, that
for me, it's easier for me to remember a
small segment of the last few characters
I'm trying to remember the whole
word.
So I'm going to xxx insert.
So I'm saying reword there and like get
the cursor off so you can see I've
changed it to reword and I'm going to edit
that one. So now, I'm going to do escape w
quit. And now I want to append
this guy, and this time, I believe that was
number 48. Let's double check.
So update profiles to use JPA services.
Update profiles for that. So let's say
period closes number 48.
So now, we'll get
that issue number in that. So escape wq
and we can see that we get a little
message there and now all you have to do
say git push
force, and again, that's this final step
here, number 4, use the git force
push. So we'll go ahead and push that on
up to GitHub. You can see that it is going up
there and it is transmitted to GitHub. And
now, we'll come over here and I'm going
to do a refresh
and you can see that this is now updated.
Remember we had the e309 hash
and that has now changed. So these two
hash has changed on that commit.
Now we have that commit message. The
reason I did this is for other students
that come through the course that aren't
going through it right now with me, they
can go back and look at this and see the
different commits. So if I come in here,
look at this issue, now I can see that.
We can come back and also see the
actual commit too. So we can come in and
see this commit. This is a handy tool
so if you're following along in the
course, you can see what was changed in the
specific commit, so these are the files
that were modified. You can see here, I
came in and added a profile with the
profile annotation. You don't have to rehash
the course, but I just want you to be aware
of how, if you're following along in the
course, you can go in to GitHub look at
these issues and see what has changed in
the source code to complete that
specific issue.